---
title: "Generating Multi-Modal Knowledge Clues as an Image: Towards Improving Image-Sequence Reasoning with Assisted Visual Input"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/generating-multimodal-knowledge-clues/
order: 1
excerpt: "Generates multimodal knowledge clues as an image to strengthen image-sequence reasoning with assisted visual input."
date: 2026-03-20
venue: "IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology (TCSVT)"
authors: "Guanghui Ye, Huan Zhao, Yixian Shen, Jiaqi Li, Fengnan Li, Zhihua Jiang, Keqin Li"
citation: 'Ye, G., Zhao, H., Shen, Y., Li, J., Li, F., Jiang, Z., & Li, K. (2026). &quot;Generating Multi-Modal Knowledge Clues as an Image: Towards Improving Image-Sequence Reasoning with Assisted Visual Input.&quot; <i>IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology</i>.'
---

Recent multi-modal large language models (MLLMs) have exhibited powerful abilities in addressing complex vision-language tasks such as image-sequence reasoning (ISR). However, significant challenges remain, e.g., it is still difficult for the MLLMs to fully capture and represent cross-image visual knowledge such as scene relations, attributes, and entity links between multiple images, which hinders them from better solving ISR. To alleviate these issues, we introduce a novel concept Visualized Knowledge Clue (VizKC) - synthetic images that encode key visual and external knowledge from a sequence of input images and are then used alongside the original input images within a multi-image MLLM to enhance reasoning performance. Accordingly, we propose an accompanying approach named VizKC-ISR, composed of two modules - VizKC generation and VizKC utilization. Specifically, in the generation module, VizKC-ISR follows a See-Find-Fuse pipeline: (i) “See - Scene Perception”, to construct an initial VizKC that incorporates scene relations of key visual entities detected from an original image; (ii) “Find - Knowledge Generation”, to generate enriched image captions with real-world knowledge and fine-grained entity details and then extract structured knowledge tuples from generated captions; (iii) “Fuse - Image Editing”, to introduce relevant knowledge tuples into the VizKC via iterative image editing. In the utilization module, we employ a multi-image MLLM (e.g., mPLUG-Owl3) to solve the VizKC-assisted ISR tasks by reasoning with generated knowledge clues. We evaluate VizKC-ISR on nine ISR benchmarks categorized into three multi-image scenarios. The results show that our VizKC-ISR performs best in all tasks, e.g., obtaining the highest average accuracy of 63.1% and surpassing the mPLUG-Owl3 baseline by 6.4 absolute points, due to the bridge between visually-grounded reasoning and multi-modal knowledge challenges.